microscope/Nikon/index.md, before:

*[back](../)*  
<a href="https://www.gixen.com/index.php" name="9e092736783d0da1dfd8413d57d10faf" target="_blank" >
<img align=right src="https://www.gixen.com/images/gixenlink.gif" border="0" alt="Auction Sniper" title="Auction Sniper">
</a>  
## Nikon BD 210mm  
While my first microscopes were [American Optical Series 10s](https://user.xmission.com/~psneeley/Personal/Microscope.htm)  
(because cheap and plentiful here),  
they were also interesting because AO pioneered infinity correction.  
That did not prevent me from also acquiring a [Nikon Apophot](https://www.microscopyu.com/museum/nikon-apophot-table-microscope),  
which massive frame used Nikon's highly popular [Model S](https://www.microscopyu.com/museum/model-s-microscope) optics.  
That Apophot was too large to move from KY,
instead using AO/Reichert microscopes until concluding that:  
* their episcopic illumination was "not ideal"  
* larger than RMS objectives are wanted for bright darkfield epi  
* fewer old optics in paths to camera sensors help contrast and sharpness.  

... which suggests Nikon's [210mm CF Plan BD objectives](https://krebsmicro.com/mplan.pdf),  
which have [M26x0.75 threads](https://www.coinimaging.com/nikon_bd5.html);
comparable [Mitutoyo objectives](https://www.closeuphotography.com/mitutoyo-10x-m-plan-apo) have [M26x0.706 threads](https://photomacrography.net/forum/viewtopic.php?f=25&t=12404) (36TPI, same as RMS).  
*Beware of incompatible M26x1 (robot lens) and M26x0.5 (Roedenstock schneider enlarger Lens shutter) threads...*   
While Nikon's newer infinity objectives are more highly rated,  
they are also more expensive, since still current technology.  
Obvious frames for 210 BD objectives are Nikon's Optiphots,
which are better quality than contemporary Labophots.
Optiphot frames come in 4 flavors:
* IC inspection ([-66](https://lavinia.as.arizona.edu/~mtuell/pdf/Nikon-Optiphot-66-Manual.pdf), -77, [-88](https://www.microscopyu.com/museum/optiphot-88-ic-inspection-microscope) and 150), of which 150 uses infinity optics  
* Optiphot-2, which are fairly famous for [fragile white plastic gears](https://www.microscopesolutions.com/product-page/nikon-labophot-2-optiphot-2-te200-300-fine-focus)  
* Optiphot(-1), which used less plastic than Optiphot-2, but also 50W instead of 100W illumination   
  Although vertical illuminators are often installed on Optiphot-1 and -2,  
  IC inspection frames MAY have stronger gears and stages with more space to examine solid objects.  
* Optiphot-200 and -300, which (like 150) uses infinity objectives, but on frames more similar to Eclipse  

#### [Labophot 1](Labophot/)  
#### [Metaphot](Metaphot/index.html)  
#### [Optiphot 1](Optiphot/)  
#### [Optiphot-66 DIC](Optiphot66_DIC/)  
#### [trinocular heads](Trinoc/)  
#### [Optiphot photography](photo)  
#### [Optiphot 66 illumination](BaseIllum/index.html)
* [Optiphot 66 diascopic conversion](diascopic)   
* [Universal Vertical Illuminator](VertIllum/index.html)  

#### [ELWD Phase Contrast](PhaseContrast/index.html) as [Dark Field Turret](CondenserTurret)  
#### [Optiphot-66 curiosities](https://www.photomacrography.net/forum/viewtopic.php?f=25&t=43374)  
#### [Episcopic MTF targets](https://www.photomacrography.net/forum/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=44878)  
#### [Nikon Optiphot Series Microscopes - lavinia.as.arizona.edu](https://lavinia.as.arizona.edu/~mtuell/scopes/Optiphot.php)  
#### [Optiphot-66/77/88 | Nikon Multiphot system - prc68.com](https://www.prc68.com/I/Multiphot.html#Optiphot)  
#### Nikon Optiphot 66 Questions - Sure Squintsalot  
* [Part 1: polarizing](https://www.microbehunter.com/microscopy-forum/viewtopic.php?f=14&t=15495)  
* [Part 2: fine focus, hacked diascopic base](https://www.microbehunter.com/microscopy-forum/viewtopic.php?f=14&t=15566)  

#### [Phase Contrast-2 ELWD 0.3 turret](PhaseContrast/index.html)  
#### [ELWD 0.3 Condenser](ELWDcondenser/index.html)  
#### [Swing-Out 0.9 Condenser](SwingOut/index.html)  
#### [CFI BE Plan Achromat 4x](CFI4x/)  
#### [Novoflex EOS-RETRO Reverse Lens Adapter](../retro/)

Commit message:

move Nikon/ images to Nikon/Images/

microscope/Nikon/index.md, after:

*[back](../)*  
<a href="https://www.gixen.com/index.php" name="9e092736783d0da1dfd8413d57d10faf" target="_blank" >
<img align=right src="https://www.gixen.com/images/gixenlink.gif" border="0" alt="Auction Sniper" title="Auction Sniper">
</a>  
## Nikon BD 210mm  
While my first microscopes were [American Optical Series 10s](https://user.xmission.com/~psneeley/Personal/Microscope.htm)  
(because cheap and plentiful here),  
they were also interesting because AO pioneered infinity correction.  
That did not prevent me from also acquiring a [Nikon Apophot](https://www.microscopyu.com/museum/nikon-apophot-table-microscope),  
which massive frame used Nikon's highly popular [Model S](https://www.microscopyu.com/museum/model-s-microscope) optics.  
That Apophot was too large to move from KY,
instead using AO/Reichert microscopes until concluding that:  
* their episcopic illumination was "not ideal"  
* larger than RMS objectives are wanted for bright darkfield epi  
* fewer old optics in paths to camera sensors help contrast and sharpness.  

Interest in [Nikon 210mm objectives](https://krebsmicro.com/mplan.pdf) was motivated by  
- macro photographers using CF M Plan objectives
- relatively low cost and wide availability of Nikon microscopes with BD Plan objectives and vertical illuminators  

which have [M26x0.75 threads](https://www.coinimaging.com/nikon_bd5.html);
comparable [Mitutoyo objectives](https://www.closeuphotography.com/mitutoyo-10x-m-plan-apo) have [M26x0.706 threads](https://photomacrography.net/forum/viewtopic.php?f=25&t=12404) (36TPI, same as RMS).  
*Beware of incompatible M26x1 (robot lens) and M26x0.5 (Roedenstock schneider enlarger Lens shutter) threads...*   
While Nikon's newer infinity objectives are more highly rated,  
they are also significantly more expensive, since still current technology,  
and inappropriate as macro lenses.  
Obvious frames for 210 BD objectives are Nikon's Optiphots,
which are better quality and more capable than contemporary Labophots.
Optiphot frames come in 4 flavors:
* IC inspection ([-66](https://lavinia.as.arizona.edu/~mtuell/pdf/Nikon-Optiphot-66-Manual.pdf), -77, [-88](https://www.microscopyu.com/museum/optiphot-88-ic-inspection-microscope) and 150), of which 150 uses infinity optics  
* Optiphot-2, which are fairly famous for [fragile white plastic gears](https://www.microscopesolutions.com/product-page/nikon-labophot-2-optiphot-2-te200-300-fine-focus)  
* Optiphot(-1), which used less plastic than Optiphot-2, but also 50W instead of 100W illumination   
  Although vertical illuminators are often installed on Optiphot-1 and -2,  
  IC inspection frames MAY have stronger gears and stages with more space to examine solid objects.  
* Optiphot-200 and -300, which (like 150) uses infinity objectives, but on frames more similar to Eclipse  

#### [Labophot 1](Labophot/)  
#### [Metaphot](Metaphot/index.html), first of CF 210mm tube length microscopes  
#### [Optiphot 1](Optiphot/)  
#### [Optiphot-66 DIC](Optiphot66_DIC/)  
#### [trinocular heads](Trinoc/)  
#### [Optiphot photography](photo)  
#### [Optiphot 66 illumination](BaseIllum/index.html)
* [Optiphot 66 diascopic conversion](diascopic)   
* [Universal Vertical Illuminator](VertIllum/index.html)  

#### [ELWD Phase Contrast](PhaseContrast/index.html) as [Dark Field Turret](CondenserTurret)  
#### [Optiphot-66 curiosities](https://www.photomacrography.net/forum/viewtopic.php?f=25&t=43374)  
#### [Episcopic MTF targets](https://www.photomacrography.net/forum/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=44878)  
#### [Nikon Optiphot Series Microscopes - lavinia.as.arizona.edu](https://lavinia.as.arizona.edu/~mtuell/scopes/Optiphot.php)  
#### [Optiphot-66/77/88 | Nikon Multiphot system - prc68.com](https://www.prc68.com/I/Multiphot.html#Optiphot)  
#### Nikon Optiphot 66 Questions - Sure Squintsalot  
* [Part 1: polarizing](https://www.microbehunter.com/microscopy-forum/viewtopic.php?f=14&t=15495)  
* [Part 2: fine focus, hacked diascopic base](https://www.microbehunter.com/microscopy-forum/viewtopic.php?f=14&t=15566)  

#### [Phase Contrast-2 ELWD 0.3 turret](PhaseContrast/index.html)  
#### [ELWD 0.3 Condenser](ELWDcondenser/index.html)  
#### [Swing-Out 0.9 Condenser](SwingOut/index.html)  
#### [CFI BE Plan Achromat 4x](CFI4x/)  
#### [Novoflex EOS-RETRO Reverse Lens Adapter](../retro/)
