microscope/Nikon/OptiphotInfinity.md, before:

 *[back](photo)*
## (almost) Infinity-focused Optiphot trinocular heads  
Nikon Optiphot M Plan (EPI) objectives were designed for 210mm tube length.  
Only ["F" trinolar head](Trinoc/#F) focus objective rays at 210mm;  
more common "T" heads have a pseudo-[infinity space around their trinocular prism](https://www.microbehunter.com/microscopy-forum/viewtopic.php?f=28&t=9092&start=60#p93275):
![Nikon T head schematic](http://www.photomacrography.net/forum/userpix/3229_Nikon_lightpath_1.jpg)  
Nikon's chimney for CF PL has an M50 x 0.75 external thread and positive lens.  
Removing that chimney allows the infinite image to continue;   
a camera with 250mm telephoto lens focused at infinity:
![Canon 90D+250mm](Images/Optiphot_Infinity.jpg)  

... captured these images:  
![stainless millimeter rule](Images/mmRule.jpg)   
*stainless millimeter rule*  

![calibration slide](Images/EPIscale.jpg)  
*same target as below*  

... however those strongly vignetted images are magnified about 3X  
relative to oculars (image by iPhone):
![ocular scale](Images/AfocalEPIscale.jpg)  

# Other  
Other Optiphot infinity configurations
- Infinity objectives thru [trinoc "F" head](Trinoc/#F) to an infinity-focused [tube lens](../tube)  
  Infinity-based Eclipse heads [reportedly fit Optiphot](https://lavinia.as.arizona.edu/~mtuell/scopes/Eclipse.php) via Optiphot 100 vertical illuminator.  
- Optiphot 100/150/200 were infinity scopes with otherwise seemingly incompatible infinity objectives,
  presumably NOT being CFI60.  
- [UM-2 measurescope takes Optiphot style nosepieces](https://www.photomacrography.net/forum/viewtopic.php?f=25&t=43442)

Commit message:

Added and improved links among photo relay and trinocular configurations

microscope/Nikon/OptiphotInfinity.md, after:

 *[back](photo)*
## (almost) Infinity-focused Optiphot trinocular heads  
Nikon Optiphot (CF) M Plan & EPI objectives have 210mm tube length.  
Only ["F" trinolar head](Trinoc/#F) focus objective rays at 210mm;  
"T" and "UW" heads have a pseudo-[infinity space around prisms](https://www.microbehunter.com/microscopy-forum/viewtopic.php?f=28&t=9092&start=60#p93275):
![Nikon T head schematic](http://www.photomacrography.net/forum/userpix/3229_Nikon_lightpath_1.jpg)  
Nikon's CF PL chimney has an M50x0.75 external thread and positive lens.  
Removing that chimney allows the infinite image to continue...  

A camera with (250mm) telephoto lens focused at infinity,  
[as discussed on photomacrography.net](https://www.photomacrography.net/forum/viewtopic.php?t=9438):  
![Canon 90D+250mm](Images/Optiphot_Infinity.jpg)  

... captured these images:  
![stainless millimeter rule](Images/mmRule.jpg)   
*stainless millimeter rule*  

![calibration slide](Images/EPIscale.jpg)  
*same target as below*  

... however those strongly vignetted images are magnified about 3X  
relative to oculars (image by iPhone):
![ocular scale](Images/AfocalEPIscale.jpg)  
This issue is addressed as [T / UW "direct" projection](Trinoc/#T-UW)   
and arguably better using [a Zeiss Triotar](../../Canon/#vintage-carl-zeiss-jena-triotar-chrome-lens-14-f135-cm).  

# Other  
Other Optiphot infinity configurations
- Infinity objectives thru [trinoc "F" head](Trinoc/#F) to an infinity-focused [tube lens](../tube)  
  Eclipse infinity heads [reportedly fit Optiphot](https://lavinia.as.arizona.edu/~mtuell/scopes/Eclipse.php) via Optiphot 100 vertical illuminator.  
- Optiphot 100/150/200 were infinity scopes with otherwise seemingly incompatible infinity objectives,
  presumably NOT being CFI60.  
- [UM-2 measurescope takes Optiphot style nosepieces](https://www.photomacrography.net/forum/viewtopic.php?f=25&t=43442)
