microscope/Nikon/photo.md, before:

*[back](./)*
## Optiphot photography  
Released when photography meant film,
semi-automated image capture involved complex optics:  
![UFX-DX attachment](UFX-DX.jpg)  

.. for a camera body:  
![camera body](FX-35DX.jpg)  

... with prisms for finder and exposure:  
![CF PL + UFX-DX](CF-PL.jpg)  

... so trinocular chimneys mount projection lenses for 210mm tube length  
and clamp proprietary Microflex units, which are obsoleted by digital cameras.  
A (sprayed black) PVC reducer from 2 inch o.d. to 1.5 inch i.d.  
has 42mm o.d which precisely fits the trinocular chimney  
and 48mm i.d. which nicely fits a Pentax K/M to T2 adapter
which gets epoxied in place:  
![chimney adapter parts](epoxy.jpg)  
*SUPER-FAST epoxy cures in 5 minutes, but wants 24 hours for full strength*  

![sprayed PVC reducer with epoxy applied](PVC.jpg)  
*PVC reducer was cut short so that K/M adapter would bottom in it*

![T2 adapter epoxied to PVC reducer](pentax.jpg)  
*T2 adapter allows clocking for desired camera orientation*  

![reducer + T2 adapter backside](bottom.jpg)  
*Will a diaphragm between projection lens and sensor improve contrast?*



#### [CF PL projection](CFPL2.5X)
#### [Infinity-focused Optiphot EPI](OptiphotInfinity)

Commit message:

parfocal camera body to objective

microscope/Nikon/photo.md, after:

*[back](./)*
## Optiphot photography  
Released when photography meant film,
semi-automated image capture involved complex optics:  
![UFX-DX attachment](UFX-DX.jpg)  

.. for a camera body:  
![camera body](FX-35DX.jpg)  

... with prisms for finder and exposure:  
![CF PL + UFX-DX](CF-PL.jpg)  

... so trinocular chimneys mount projection lenses for 210mm tube length  
and clamp proprietary Microflex units, which are obsoleted by digital cameras.  

With (trincular) head removed, vertical illuminator flange-to-camera body flange distance  
for parfocal Canon EF DSLR is about 58mm:  
![headless Optiphot 66 to Canon 6D](headless58mm.jpg)  
*Canon EF DSLR flange-to-sensor distance is 44mm*  

Canon's RF camera bodies have 20mm flange-to-sensor distance.  With its chimney removed,  
Nikon's F trinocular head has about 76mm flange-to-flange distance.  
Canon RF mirrorless bodies should be able to achieve parfocality
with Nikon 210mm objectives and F trinocular heads...  

A (sprayed black) PVC reducer from 2 inch o.d. to 1.5 inch i.d.  
has 42mm o.d., which precisely fits Nikon's trinocular chimneys,  
and 48mm i.d., which nicely fits a Pentax K/M to T2 adapter,
that gets epoxied in place:  
![chimney adapter parts](epoxy.jpg)  
*SUPER-FAST epoxy cures in 5 minutes, but wants 24 hours for full strength*  

![sprayed PVC reducer with epoxy applied](PVC.jpg)  
*PVC reducer was cut short so that K/M adapter would bottom in it*

![T2 adapter epoxied to PVC reducer](pentax.jpg)  
*T2 adapter allows clocking for desired camera orientation*  

![reducer + T2 adapter backside](bottom.jpg)  
*Will a diaphragm between projection lens and sensor improve contrast?*



#### [CF PL projection](CFPL2.5X)
#### [Infinity-focused Optiphot EPI](OptiphotInfinity)
