microscope/Nikon/relay2x.md, before:

 *[back](photo)*
## generic approx 2x photo relay lenses
These typically have 23.2mm tube to fit microscopes and C-mount thread at their opposite end.  
Similar 0.5x photo relays are used with a [C-mount USB camera cube](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B016ODYIEK):  
![Amazon 5mp USB](https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/61fbzAzzXyL._AC_SL1000_.jpg)  
Since Nikon CF objectives are nominally free of chromatic aberrations,  
truly generic photo relay camera adapters *could* work well.  
[Brooke Clarke compared a pair of generic camera adapters](http://www.prc68.com/I/MicroPhotography.html#ISvO)  
![Image Solutions and Optexcom Camera Adapters](http://www.prc68.com/I/Images/RelayInb.jpg)  
which are no longer available from cited vendors Image Solutions and Optexcom.    
A relay lens acquired 20 or so years ago looks similar to that Optexcom adapter:  
![](Images/generic20yr.jpg)  
Its best focus is about 5cm from C-mount thread to camera sensor,
but that parfocal image is poor and distorted, perhaps because
its bottom lens does no descend far enough into photo (or eye) tube for intermediate focal plane.  
The Image Solutions adapter looks similar to currently-available [AmScope CA-CAN-SLR-III](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B009OY7YG6).  
![AmScope CA-CAN-SLR-III](https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/61ZtB9YrKkL._AC_SL1500_.jpg)  
Its Amazon price is higher than that for a used [CF PL2.5X](CFPL2.5X),  
but includes a mechanical camera attachment that needs to be improvised or acquired for the CF PL2.5X.

Commit message:

minor edits; convert markdown with tables to HTML (lack of GitHub support)

microscope/Nikon/relay2x.md, after:

 *[back](photo)*
## generic approx 2x photo relay lenses
These typically have 23.2mm tube to fit microscopes and C-mount thread at their opposite end.  
Similar 0.5x photo relays are used with a [C-mount USB camera cube](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B016ODYIEK):  
![Amazon 5mp USB](https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/61fbzAzzXyL._AC_SL1000_.jpg)  
Since Nikon CF objectives are nominally free of chromatic aberrations,  
truly generic photo relay camera adapters *could* work well.  
[Brooke Clarke compared a pair of generic camera adapters](http://www.prc68.com/I/MicroPhotography.html#ISvO)  
![Image Solutions and Optexcom Camera Adapters](http://www.prc68.com/I/Images/RelayInb.jpg)  
which are no longer available from cited vendors Image Solutions and Optexcom.    
A relay lens acquired 20 or so years ago looks similar to that Optexcom adapter:  
![](Images/generic20yr.jpg)  
Focussed about 5cm from C-mount thread to camera sensor,
that parfocal image is poor and distorted,  
because it is actually intended for use with a C-mount camera sensor in very close proximity.  

The Image Solutions adapter looks similar to currently-available [AmScope CA-CAN-SLR-III](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B009OY7YG6).  
![AmScope CA-CAN-SLR-III](https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/61ZtB9YrKkL._AC_SL1500_.jpg)  
Its Amazon price is higher than that for a used [CF PL2.5X](CFPL2.5X),  
but includes a mechanical camera attachment that needs to be improvised or acquired for the CF PL2.5X.
