ChromeBook/index.md, before:

*[back](../)*
<a href="https://www.gixen.com/index.php" name="9e092736783d0da1dfd8413d57d10faf" target="_blank" >
<img align=right src="https://www.gixen.com/images/gixenlink.gif" border="0"
alt="Auction Sniper" title="Auction Sniper">
</a>  
## Lenovo Chromebook C340 2-in-1 15.6" FHD Touch i3-8130U 4GB RAM 32GB eMMC cam
![](s-1600.jpg)  
item number: &nbsp; [304527111077](https://www.ebay.com/itm/304527111077)  
Condition: New  
Type: Notebook/Laptop  
Model:  Lenovo Chromebook C340  
MPN:  81T9000XUS  
Operating System: Chrome OS  
Processor Speed: 2.20 GHz  
Graphics Processing Type:  Integrated/On-Board Graphics Intel UHD Graphics 600  
Storage:  eMMC 32 GB  
RAM Size:  4 GB  
Processor:  Intel Core i3 8th Gen.  
Screen:  15.6-in (1920 x 1080) IPS, anti-glare, Touchscreen, 250 nits  
Features:  Bluetooth, Built-in Microphone, Built-in Webcam, Convertible 2-in-1 Laptop/Tablet  
Country/Region of Manufacture: China  
Input:  Internal Keyboard, non-backlit  
Battery:  4 cell 56Wh  
Power:  AC Adapter  
Chassis: Mineral Grey  
Ports: &amp; Slots:  2 x USB-C 3.1 Gen 1, 1 x USB-A 3.1 Gen 1, MicroSD card reader, Headphone/mic combo, Kensington lock slot  
Dimensions:  361.5mm x 248.85mm x 18.95mm / 14.23" x 9.8" x 0.74"  
Weight:  Starting at 4.4 pounds  
Warranty:  It is covered by manufacturer's Warranty Repair Service Service until June, 2023.  

![](maxmart.png)  &nbsp; [Lenovo Authorized seller](https://www.ebay.com/usr/themaxmart)  

---

 *received 28 July*
My solitary C340 arrived today in a sealed Lenovo box.
Somewhat evocative of my now-ancient MacBook Pro;
less tapered and a darker gray (no illuminated apple logo)...
It fired up a few seconds after plugging in its USB-C charger.
It needed a (~5 minute) update.
It tried and failed to sync settings without first asking for my passphrase...

Ordered a [USB-C dock with DisplayPort](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B076TRGGM6)  
[**Connect your Chromebook to a monitor**](https://support.google.com/chromebook/answer/1060909)  
[**Multiple Chromebook monitors by USB-C**](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2020/09/chromebook-multiple-displays-single-usb-c-port.html)  
[**Lenovo Chromebook community**](https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Lenovo-Chromebooks/bd-p/lc01_en)  
[**Lenovo IdeaPad C340-15 hardware manual**](https://download.lenovo.com/consumer/mobiles_pub/flex_15iwl_hmm_201902.pdf)  
[**VLC Media Player on Chromebook plays FLAC**](https://chromeready.com/2683/how-to-install-vlc-media-player-on-chromebook)  
{**Chromebook external NTFS hard drives**](https://www.cnet.com/tech/computing/how-to-use-an-external-drive-with-a-chromebook/)  
- [File types and external devices that work on Chromebooks](https://support.google.com/chromebook/answer/183093)

Commit message:

fix ChromeBook link; add stylus and NTFS

ChromeBook/index.md, after:

*[back](../)*
<a href="https://www.gixen.com/index.php" name="9e092736783d0da1dfd8413d57d10faf" target="_blank" >
<img align=right src="https://www.gixen.com/images/gixenlink.gif" border="0"
alt="Auction Sniper" title="Auction Sniper">
</a>  
## Lenovo Chromebook C340 2-in-1 15.6" FHD Touch i3-8130U 4GB RAM 32GB eMMC cam
![](s-1600.jpg)  
item number: &nbsp; [304527111077](https://www.ebay.com/itm/304527111077)  
Condition: New  
Type: Notebook/Laptop  
Model:  Lenovo Chromebook C340  
MPN:  81T9000XUS  
Operating System: Chrome OS  
Processor Speed: 2.20 GHz  
Graphics Processing Type:  Integrated/On-Board Graphics Intel UHD Graphics 600  
Storage:  eMMC 32 GB  
RAM Size:  4 GB  
Processor:  Intel Core i3 8th Gen.  
Screen:  15.6-in (1920 x 1080) IPS, anti-glare, Touchscreen, 250 nits  
Features:  Bluetooth, Built-in Microphone, Built-in Webcam, Convertible 2-in-1 Laptop/Tablet  
Country/Region of Manufacture: China  
Input:  Internal Keyboard, non-backlit  
Battery:  4 cell 56Wh  
Power:  AC Adapter  
Chassis: Mineral Grey  
Ports: &amp; Slots:  2 x USB-C 3.1 Gen 1, 1 x USB-A 3.1 Gen 1, MicroSD card reader, Headphone/mic combo, Kensington lock slot  
Dimensions:  361.5mm x 248.85mm x 18.95mm / 14.23" x 9.8" x 0.74"  
Weight:  Starting at 4.4 pounds  
Warranty:  It is covered by manufacturer's Warranty Repair Service Service until June, 2023.  

![](maxmart.png)  &nbsp; [Lenovo Authorized seller](https://www.ebay.com/usr/themaxmart)  

---

 *received 28 July*
My solitary C340 arrived today in a sealed Lenovo box.
Somewhat evocative of my now-ancient MacBook Pro;
less tapered and a darker gray (no illuminated apple logo)...
It fired up a few seconds after plugging in its USB-C charger.
It needed a (~5 minute) update.
It tried and failed to sync settings without first asking for my passphrase...

Ordered a [USB-C dock with DisplayPort](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B076TRGGM6)  
[**Connect your Chromebook to a monitor**](https://support.google.com/chromebook/answer/1060909)  
[**Multiple Chromebook monitors by USB-C**](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2020/09/chromebook-multiple-displays-single-usb-c-port.html)  
[**Lenovo Chromebook community**](https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/Lenovo-Chromebooks/bd-p/lc01_en)  
[**Lenovo IdeaPad C340-15 hardware manual**](https://download.lenovo.com/consumer/mobiles_pub/flex_15iwl_hmm_201902.pdf)  
[**VLC Media Player on Chromebook plays FLAC**](https://chromeready.com/2683/how-to-install-vlc-media-player-on-chromebook)  
[**Chromebook external NTFS hard drives**](https://www.cnet.com/tech/computing/how-to-use-an-external-drive-with-a-chromebook/)  
- [File types and external devices that work on Chromebooks](https://support.google.com/chromebook/answer/183093)  
[Stylus for C340-15 Touch-Screen Chromebook](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B085FDR67C)  
 - Stylus to draw on it needs to be brought separately.  
 - [**7 Best Chromebooks for Artists in 2022**](https://proactivecreative.com/7-best-chromebooks-for-artists-in-2020)
