XR/Glossary.md, before:

---
---  
[*back*](FAQ.htm)  
## VR / XR Glossary
[AC](https://assettocorsa.gg/assetto-corsa/) - [Assetto Corsa](https://www.overtake.gg/downloads/categories/assetto-corsa.1/),
	*why* [*I care about VR / XR*](https://blekenbleu.github.io/pedals/#AC)  
[adaptive anti-aliasing](https://www.amd.com/en/resources/support-articles/faqs/dh-012.html#DH-012-Aliasing%20)
 Radeon's TAAA alternative  
[Air Link](https://www.meta.com/help/quest/articles/headsets-and-accessories/oculus-link/connect-with-air-link/)
 Meta / Quest alternative to Virtual Desktop for PCVR streaming  
[Aliasing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aliasing) artifacts from sampling `@ < ~ 3x` content's highest frequencies  
[ALVR](https://github.com/alvr-org/ALVR) Air Light VR streams PCVR to wireless headsets  
[anti-aliasing](https://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/what-is-anti-aliasing/#dt-heading-how-to-turn-on-anti-aliasing-in-games) 
  **How to turn on anti-aliasing in games**  
[ASW](https://developers.meta.com/horizon/blog/asynchronous-spacewarp/) Oculus' Asynchronous Spacewarp for frame rate jitter reduction  
[BMS](https://www.falcon-bms.com/) Falcon Benchmark Sim - flight  
[BSB](https://www.bigscreenvr.com/) Bigscreen Beyond microOLED pancake lens VR headset  
[CA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chromatic_aberration) Chromatic aberration, *axial (longitudinal) and transverse (lateral)*  
[CAS](https://github.com/GPUOpen-Effects/FidelityFX) Contrast adaptive sharpening with optional up-scaling;&nbsp; Nvidia Freestyle  
[core parking](https://www.thewindowsclub.com/enable-disable-core-parking-windows) - disable some CPU cores, reducing power and heat  
 &emsp; (Windows 11 often parks 18/20 of i5-13600K 6P + 8E cores)  
[CSAA](https://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/anti-aliasing-nvidia-geforce-amd-radeon,2868-4.html) Nvidia's coverage sampling anti-aliasing - enhanced MSAA  
[DFR](https://www.tobii.com/blog/what-is-foveated-rendering) dynamic foveated rendering - key for optimizing VR performance  
[Direct3D](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/direct3d) - drawing primitives and shading in Windows DirectX graphics and gaming API  
 &emsp; D3DX12 AKA Direct3D 12 is the current version;&nbsp;  most games use 11 or earlier  
[DLAA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_learning_anti-aliasing) Nvidia Deep learning anti-aliasing, similar to DLSS and TAA,  
 &emsp; but image quality focus (full resolution)  
[DLDSR](https://www.techporn.ph/nvidia-dldsr-how-to-enable/) Deep learning dynamic super resolution  
 &emsp; Nvidia tech for rendering at resolution *higher than* displayed  
[DLSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_learning_super_sampling) Deep learning super sampling - Nvidia itech for  
 &emsp; *reduced* resolution *rendering*, based on TAA, liable to artifacts  
[DLSS-G](https://github.com/NVIDIAGameWorks/Streamline/blob/main/docs/ProgrammingGuideDLSS_G.md) AKA DLSS-FG - Nvidia frame generation  
[DLSSTweaks](https://github.com/emoose/DLSSTweaks) - force DLAA onto DLSS-supported titles  
[`driver_leap`](https://github.com/SDraw/driver_leap) SteamVR driver for [emulating controllers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RdGnCV2g_oE)
 by [Ultraleap handtracking](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=21v4m3ATeqE)  
[DSC](https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/dsc-higher-fidelity-vr/) Digital Stream Compression - *visually* lossless on DisplayPort 1.4a, HDMI 2.1  
[EQAA](https://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/anti-aliasing-nvidia-geforce-amd-radeon,2868-4.html) enhanced quality anti-aliasing - AMD's CSAA implementation  
[eyebox](https://www.light-am.com/fileGXJZZ/journal/article/xjzz/2021/3/PDF/LAM2020120035.pdf)
 small HMD regions for pupils that optimize viewing  
[eye relief](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eye_relief) - for HMDs, eye relief `tolerance` is one eyebox dimension  
[eye tracking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eye_tracking) needed for DFR, wanted for social VR    
[FFR](https://www.tomshardware.com/news/oculus-fixed-foveated-rendering-technology,36781.html) fixed foveated rendering  
[FoV](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Field_of_view) Field of view, angles from pupil to image edges  
**FPS** First-person shooter (game) or Frames per second (display refresh rate)  
[frame generation](https://blurbusters.com/frame-generation-essentials-interpolation-extrapolation-and-reprojection/) - interpolating or warping intermediate frames  
 &emsp; when rendered frame rate is objectionable  
[Fred Emmott](https://fredemmott.com/bio) OpenXR Invited Expert, OpenKneeboard and HTCC developer  
[FSAA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spatial_anti-aliasing#Super_sampling_/_full-scene_anti-aliasing) full-scene anti-aliasing AKA SSAA  
[Freestyle](https://www.pcmag.com/how-to/how-to-improve-pc-graphics-and-add-filters-with-nvidia-freestyle) Nividia's CAS post-processing, supplanted by RTX Dynamic Vibrance  
[FSR](https://gpuopen.com/fidelityfx-superresolution-2/) AMD FidelityFX Super Resolution alternative to DLSS  
[FXAA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fast_approximate_anti-aliasing) Fast Approximate Anti-Aliasing tries to clean up jaggies *after* rendering  
[HAGS](https://www.howtogeek.com/756935/how-to-enable-hardware-accelerated-gpu-scheduling-in-windows-11/) Hardware Accelerated GPU Scheduling  
[HelloXR](https://developer-docs.magicleap.cloud/docs/guides/openxr/getting-started/openxr-helloxr/) - Magic Leap 2 sample OpenXR application  
[hello_xr](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenXR-SDK-Source/blob/main/src/tests/hello_xr) - part of [OpenXR&trade; Software Development Kit (SDK) Sources Project](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenXR-SDK-Source)  
 &emsp; "Handy as it's really basic, logs a lot, and supports pretty much every graphics API."  
 &emsp; download [openxr_loader_windows-1.1.43.zip](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenXR-SDK-Source/releases/) and extract `x64` for Windows 11  
 &emsp; [some documentation](https://www.mankier.com/package/openxr);&nbsp;
 [about View, Local, Stage spaces](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.0/man/html/XrSpace.html),
 [Blend Mode](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.0/man/html/XrEnvironmentBlendMode.html);
 &nbsp;[specs](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.1/pdf/xrspec.pdf)    
**HMD** head mounted display AKA headset  
[HRM](https://www.reddit.com/r/ValveIndex/comments/i6jnfa/removing_the_lens_mesh_in_software_howto/) Hidden radial mask: don't render edge pixels not visible in HMD  
  &emsp; reportedly [minimal impact in DCS](https://forum.dcs.world/topic/348555-vr-enable-hmd-mask-is-this-still-useful/)  
[HTCC](https://htcc.fredemmott.com/) - hand tracking OpenXR API layer for MSFS, DCS World, HelloXR  
[iNFINITE](https://www.infinite.cz/projects/HMD-tester-virtual-reality-headset-database-utility) VR Headset FoV database and test utility  
[iVRy](https://steamcommunity.com/app/992490) a commercial app for [streaming SteamVR](https://github.com/PhoneVR-Developers/PhoneVR) to wireless devices  
[IW3](https://github.com/nagadomi/nunif/) MIT license 2D image/video to 3D conversion  
[judder](https://www.howtogeek.com/753131/what-is-judder-and-why-do-tvs-have-this-problem/) aliasing between render and display frame rates  
[Leap Motion Controller 2](https://leap2.ultraleap.com/products/leap-motion-controller-2/) by Ultraleap  
[Leapify](https://github.com/Nyabsi/leapify) switches between controllers and Hand Tracking  
[LSFG](https://steamcommunity.com/app/993090/discussions/0/4418677017727367960/) Lossless Scaling FrameGen
	["no substitute for DLSS"](https://www.xda-developers.com/lossless-scaling-hands-on/)  
	 &emsp; [LSFG 3](https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/993090/view/527583567913419235) 24% less latency, but generally not for VR  
[mbucchia](https://github.com/mbucchia)  XR software engineer Matthieu Bucchianeri  
[MeganeX superlight 8k](https://shop.shiftall.net/en-us/products/meganex8k-us) 2x 4k microOLED panel pancake lens VR headset,  
 &emsp; highly regarded by MRTV  
[MFG](https://www.nvidia.com/en-eu/geforce/news/dlss4-multi-frame-generation-ai-innovations/) - Multi Frame Generation (NVIDIA) up to 3 fake between rendered  
[motion reprojection](https://forums.flightsimulator.com/t/motion-reprojection-explained/548659) AKA SpaceWarp (SW)  
  &emsp; differences between objects moving in a scene vs e.g. camera rotation,  
  &emsp; by interpolation (adding latency) or extrapolation (guessing wrong)  
[MRTV](https://www.youtube.com/@mixedrealityTV/videos) MIXED REALITY TV - YouTuber and VR journalist Sebastial Ang's channel  
[MSAA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multisample_anti-aliasing) multi-sample antialiasing - operates along geometric edges.  
 &emsp;  Tom's Hardware suggests
 [4x MSAA suffices](https://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/anti-aliasing-nvidia-geforce-amd-radeon,2868-2.html)  
[NVIDIA App](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/software/nvidia-app/) replaces [GeForce Experience](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/geforce/geforce-experience/download/),
	eventually [NVIDIA Control Panel](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/drivers/control-panel/)  
[OpenComposite](https://gitlab.com/znixian/OpenOVR) replaces `openvr_api.dll`, often [speeding performance](https://aircada.com/blog/steamvr-vs-opencomposite)  
 &emsp;	by [forwarding calls](https://fredemmott.com/blog/2022/05/29/vr-software-components.html) to OpenXR runtime, bypassing OpenVR  
[OpenGL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenGL) - 2D and 3D graphics API, developed by Silicon Graphics  
[OpenKneeboard](https://openkneeboard.com/) Fred Emmott's 2D overlay for OpenXR and OpenVR,  
 &emsp;	works with [**SimHub**](https://github.com/SHWotever/SimHub/wiki) dashboards  
[OpenVR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenVR) SteamVR API since 2015  
[OpenXR](https://www.khronos.org/OpenXR/) alternative to OpenVR for [AR/MR/VR/XR API](mbucchia.html) since 2017  
[OpenXR API Layers on Windows](https://fredemmott.com/blog/2024/11/25/best-practices-for-openxr-api-layers.html) - Best Practices, by Fred Emmott  
[OpenXR API Layers GUI](https://github.com/fredemmott/OpenXR-API-Layers-GUI) Fred Emmott's tool tp inspect / tweak OpenXR API layers  
[OpenXR D3DX12](https://github.com/mbucchia/OpenXR-Vk-D3D12) - mbucchia' software enabling OpenXR Vulkan/OpenGL apps   
 &emsp; to work with OpenXR runtimes supporting only Direct3D 12  
[**OpenXR Explorer**](https://github.com/maluoi/openxr-explorer) switch runtimes, inspect properties, but hard-coded list;  
 &emsp; see xr-picker  
[OpenXR-Runtime-Switcher](https://github.com/WaGi-Coding/OpenXR-Runtime-Switcher) quickly switch System Default OpenXR Runtime  
[OVR Lighthouse Manager](https://github.com/kurotu/OVR-Lighthouse-Manager) manage SteamVR base station power  
 &emsp; without HTC Vive or Valve Index  
[Owl3D](https://www.owl3d.com/) for converting 2D video to 3D  
[OXRMC](https://github.com/BuzzteeBear/OpenXR-MotionCompensation) motion compensation keeps VR views in cockpit  
 &emsp; during large motion platform excursions  
[OXRTK](https://mbucchia.github.io/OpenXR-Toolkit/) mbucchia's OpenXR Toolkit  
[PCVR](https://www.roadtovr.com/how-to-tell-pc-virtual-reality-vr-oculus-rift-htc-vive-steam-vr-compatibility-tool/)
 Personal Computer Virtual Reality - VR rendering by personal computers  
	&emsp; (vs standalone / wireless headsets)  
[Pimax Crystal](https://pimax.com/pages/crystal) mini-LED aspheric lens headset  
[Process Lasso](https://bitsum.com/server/features/) GUI to customize software process affinity to CPU cores  
[pupil swim](pupil_swim.htm) perception of discrepancies betweeen corrections  
 &emsp; and real lens geometric distortions  
[Quadviews Companion](https://github.com/TallyMouse/QuadViewsCompanion)
	 utility to configure [mbucchia's QuadViews](https://github.com/mbucchia/Quad-Views-Foveated)  
[QVFR](https://github-wiki-see.page/m/mbucchia/Quad-Views-Foveated/wiki) QuadView Foveated
 Rendering - reducing resolution outside sweet spot  
[RCHeliguy](https://www.youtube.com/@markkovalcson7243/videos) Mark Kovalcson  
[Reflex 2](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/geforce/news/reflex-2-even-lower-latency-gameplay-with-frame-warp/) - NVIDIA:&nbsp; updating camera perspective as late as possible.  
[rendering](https://gfxcourses.stanford.edu/cs248/winter21content/media/vr/12_vr_sm.pdf) generating (binocular) image samples  
reprojection - alternative to [motion smoothing](https://www.uploadvr.com/reprojection-explained/) or frame generation,  
 &emsp; often associated with Windows Mixed Reality  
[ROV Test FOV & Resolution](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=1359389601) Snellen text legibility, glare, FoV, distortions
	 AKA [**testhmd**](https://knob2001.itch.io/testhmd)  
[RTSS](https://www.guru3d.com/page/rivatuner-rtss-homepage/) RivaTuner Statistics Server, includes FPS limiter, bad for OpenXR  
[RTX Dynamic Vibrance](https://www.tweaktown.com/news/96343/rtx-hdr-and-dynamic-vibrance-use-ai-to-dramatically-improve-the-look-of-thousands-games/index.html) -
 [**Nvidia app**](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/geforce/news/nvidia-app-download-and-features/) SDR to HDR converter  
[SimHub](https://www.simhubdash.com/) Windows sim telemetry utility for dashboards, haptics, motion,  
 &emsp; other hardware by plugins  
[SLAM](SLAM.htm) Simultaneous Localization And Mapping ([SteamVR Base Station](BaseStation/base_station.htm)) tracking)  
[Social VR](https://www.interaction-design.org/literature/topics/social-virtual-reality-vr)
 e.g. [VRChat](https://hello.vrchat.com/),  [Somnium Space](https://www.somniumspace.com/)  
[Somnium VR1](https://blekenbleu.github.io/VR1) mini-LED doublet aspheric lens XR headset  
[SpaceWarp](https://www.uploadvr.com/quest-2-application-spacewarp/) AKA ASW or Application SpaceWarp - Quest frame generation  
 &emsp; extrapolation tech using game engine depth buffer and motion vectors  
[SMAA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morphological_antialiasing) Subpixel Morphological Anti-Aliasing,
 similar to FXAA,  
 &emsp; but less cost-effecting than TAA  
SRS Sample Rate Shading:&nbsp; see VRS - or -
[Sim Racing Studio](https://simracingstudio.freshdesk.com/support/solutions/articles/35000209894-richard-burns-rally-next-gen-physics-troubleshooting) (motion)  
[SSAA](https://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/anti-aliasing-performance,3065-18.html) Supersampling antialiasing - visual
 quality and performance cost > MSAA  
[SSW](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zH7qCsey2to) Virtual Desktop Synchronous Spacewarp reprojection (frame rate jitter reduction)  
[stutter](https://www.howtogeek.com/874778/7-reasons-your-windows-pc-is-stuttering-and-how-to-fix-it/) inconsistent rendering time,
 missing some frames at regular display intervals  
[SteamVR](https://store.steampowered.com/steamvr) Valve's VR tools and services, e.g. OpenVR, Lighthouse Tracking  
[strain](https://www.testdevices.com/spin-testing/optical-strain-measurement/) visible artifacts, often with polarized light, from optic inhomogeneities,  
 &emsp; often induced by mechanical stresses, AKA [Schlieren](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schlieren)  
[sweet spot](https://vrlowdown.com/why-is-vr-blurry/) limited region near HMD lens centers with useful resolution, fewer artifacts  
[TAA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temporal_anti-aliasing) Temporal Anti-Aliasing blends pixels among frames  
[TAAA](https://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/anti-aliasing-nvidia-geforce-amd-radeon,2868-3.html)
 Nvidia transparency adaptive anti-aliasing for transparent textures  
 &emsp; in 2 flavors: TrSSAA, TrMSAA  
[Ultraleap](https://www.ultraleap.com/) hand tracking cameras and software  
[Valve Corporation](https://www.valvesoftware.com/) owner of Steam, dominant Windows PC game platform  
[Virtual Desktop](https://www.vrdesktop.net/) AKA VD, often Guy Godin’s PCVR app;  
 &emsp; a second version links to wireless (standalone) headsets  
[VDXR](https://github.com/mbucchia/VirtualDesktop-OpenXR) OpenXR runtime for Virtual Desktop  
[vorpX](https://www.vorpx.com/) VR support for 250+ DirectX 9-12 first person games  
[VR](http://www.lavalle.pl/vr/web.html) VIRTUAL REALITY (link to
	[Steven LaValle's](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLbMVogVj5nJSyt80VRXYC-YrAvQuUb6dh) free book)  
[VRC](https://hello.vrchat.com/) VRChat  
[VRFSG](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCtr084FH7rX9rUKTAlZFKXA) VR Flight Sim Guy - Somnium VR1 beta tester and YouTuber's channel  
[VRGOXR](https://portal.vrgineers.com/user-guide/software/openxr/) vrgineers' OpenXR runtime AKA VRG runtime  
[vrperfkit](https://github.com/fholger/vrperfkit) fholger's VR Performance Toolkit to upscale after rendering,  
 &emsp; fixed foveated rendering option  
[VRPerfKit_RSF](https://github.com/RavenSystem/VRPerfKit_RSF) RavenSystem's vrperfkit fork for dynamic FFR, HRM  
[vrperfkit fixed foveated rendering with VRS](https://github.com/cedriclmenard/vrperfkit/releases) - works for DCS, Assetto Corsa  
[VRS](https://developer.nvidia.com/vrworks/graphics/variablerateshading) (Nvidia)
	[Variable Rate Shading](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/directx/variable-rate-shading-a-scalpel-in-a-world-of-sledgehammers/)  
[VRSS](https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/nvidia-vrss-a-zero-effort-way-to-improve-your-vr-image-quality/)
 Nvidia Variable Rate Supersampling  
[Vulkan / OpenGL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vulkan) intended OpenGL replacement  
 &emsp; Vulcan is tuned for multiple CPU cores and modern GPUs  
[WIMFOV](first.htm#WIMFOV) - **What is my Field of View?**  
[xr-picker](https://github.com/rpavlik/xr-picker) cross-platform tool for OpenXR runtime selection;
	&nbsp; Fred Emmott recommends

Commit message:

mura; current left-right VR1 WIMFOV

XR/Glossary.md, after:

---
---  
[*back*](FAQ.htm)  
## VR / XR Glossary
[AC](https://assettocorsa.gg/assetto-corsa/) - [Assetto Corsa](https://www.overtake.gg/downloads/categories/assetto-corsa.1/),
	*why* [*I care about VR / XR*](https://blekenbleu.github.io/pedals/#AC)  
[adaptive anti-aliasing](https://www.amd.com/en/resources/support-articles/faqs/dh-012.html#DH-012-Aliasing%20)
 Radeon's TAAA alternative  
[Air Link](https://www.meta.com/help/quest/articles/headsets-and-accessories/oculus-link/connect-with-air-link/)
 Meta / Quest alternative to Virtual Desktop for PCVR streaming  
[Aliasing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aliasing) artifacts from sampling `@ < ~ 3x` content's highest frequencies  
[ALVR](https://github.com/alvr-org/ALVR) Air Light VR streams PCVR to wireless headsets  
[anti-aliasing](https://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/what-is-anti-aliasing/#dt-heading-how-to-turn-on-anti-aliasing-in-games) 
  **How to turn on anti-aliasing in games**  
[ASW](https://developers.meta.com/horizon/blog/asynchronous-spacewarp/) Oculus' Asynchronous Spacewarp for frame rate jitter reduction  
[BMS](https://www.falcon-bms.com/) Falcon Benchmark Sim - flight  
[BSB](https://www.bigscreenvr.com/) Bigscreen Beyond microOLED pancake lens VR headset  
[CA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chromatic_aberration) Chromatic aberration, *axial (longitudinal) and transverse (lateral)*  
[CAS](https://github.com/GPUOpen-Effects/FidelityFX) Contrast adaptive sharpening with optional up-scaling;&nbsp; Nvidia Freestyle  
[core parking](https://www.thewindowsclub.com/enable-disable-core-parking-windows) - disable some CPU cores, reducing power and heat  
 &emsp; (Windows 11 often parks 18/20 of i5-13600K 6P + 8E cores)  
[CSAA](https://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/anti-aliasing-nvidia-geforce-amd-radeon,2868-4.html) Nvidia's coverage sampling anti-aliasing - enhanced MSAA  
[DFR](https://www.tobii.com/blog/what-is-foveated-rendering) dynamic foveated rendering - key for optimizing VR performance  
[Direct3D](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/direct3d) - drawing primitives and shading in Windows DirectX graphics and gaming API  
 &emsp; D3DX12 AKA Direct3D 12 is the current version;&nbsp;  most games use 11 or earlier  
[DLAA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_learning_anti-aliasing) Nvidia Deep learning anti-aliasing, similar to DLSS and TAA,  
 &emsp; but image quality focus (full resolution)  
[DLDSR](https://www.techporn.ph/nvidia-dldsr-how-to-enable/) Deep learning dynamic super resolution  
 &emsp; Nvidia tech for rendering at resolution *higher than* displayed  
[DLSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_learning_super_sampling) Deep learning super sampling - Nvidia itech for  
 &emsp; *reduced* resolution *rendering*, based on TAA, liable to artifacts  
[DLSS-G](https://github.com/NVIDIAGameWorks/Streamline/blob/main/docs/ProgrammingGuideDLSS_G.md) AKA DLSS-FG - Nvidia frame generation  
[DLSSTweaks](https://github.com/emoose/DLSSTweaks) - force DLAA onto DLSS-supported titles  
[`driver_leap`](https://github.com/SDraw/driver_leap) SteamVR driver for [emulating controllers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RdGnCV2g_oE)
 by [Ultraleap handtracking](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=21v4m3ATeqE)  
[DSC](https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/dsc-higher-fidelity-vr/) Digital Stream Compression - *visually* lossless on DisplayPort 1.4a, HDMI 2.1  
[EQAA](https://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/anti-aliasing-nvidia-geforce-amd-radeon,2868-4.html) enhanced quality anti-aliasing - AMD's CSAA implementation  
[eyebox](https://www.light-am.com/fileGXJZZ/journal/article/xjzz/2021/3/PDF/LAM2020120035.pdf)
 small HMD regions for pupils that optimize viewing  
[eye relief](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eye_relief) - for HMDs, eye relief `tolerance` is one eyebox dimension  
[eye tracking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eye_tracking) needed for DFR, wanted for social VR    
[FFR](https://www.tomshardware.com/news/oculus-fixed-foveated-rendering-technology,36781.html) fixed foveated rendering  
[FoV](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Field_of_view) Field of view, angles from pupil to image edges  
**FPS** First-person shooter (game) or Frames per second (display refresh rate)  
[frame generation](https://blurbusters.com/frame-generation-essentials-interpolation-extrapolation-and-reprojection/) - interpolating or warping intermediate frames  
 &emsp; when rendered frame rate is objectionable  
[Fred Emmott](https://fredemmott.com/bio) OpenXR Invited Expert, OpenKneeboard and HTCC developer  
[FSAA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spatial_anti-aliasing#Super_sampling_/_full-scene_anti-aliasing) full-scene anti-aliasing AKA SSAA  
[Freestyle](https://www.pcmag.com/how-to/how-to-improve-pc-graphics-and-add-filters-with-nvidia-freestyle) Nividia's CAS post-processing, supplanted by RTX Dynamic Vibrance  
[FSR](https://gpuopen.com/fidelityfx-superresolution-2/) AMD FidelityFX Super Resolution alternative to DLSS  
[FXAA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fast_approximate_anti-aliasing) Fast Approximate Anti-Aliasing tries to clean up jaggies *after* rendering  
[HAGS](https://www.howtogeek.com/756935/how-to-enable-hardware-accelerated-gpu-scheduling-in-windows-11/) Hardware Accelerated GPU Scheduling  
[HelloXR](https://developer-docs.magicleap.cloud/docs/guides/openxr/getting-started/openxr-helloxr/) - Magic Leap 2 sample OpenXR application  
[hello_xr](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenXR-SDK-Source/blob/main/src/tests/hello_xr) - part of [OpenXR&trade; Software Development Kit (SDK) Sources Project](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenXR-SDK-Source)  
 &emsp; "Handy as it's really basic, logs a lot, and supports pretty much every graphics API."  
 &emsp; download [openxr_loader_windows-1.1.43.zip](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenXR-SDK-Source/releases/) and extract `x64` for Windows 11  
 &emsp; [some documentation](https://www.mankier.com/package/openxr);&nbsp;
 [about View, Local, Stage spaces](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.0/man/html/XrSpace.html),
 [Blend Mode](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.0/man/html/XrEnvironmentBlendMode.html);
 &nbsp;[specs](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenXR/specs/1.1/pdf/xrspec.pdf)    
**HMD** head mounted display AKA headset  
[HRM](https://www.reddit.com/r/ValveIndex/comments/i6jnfa/removing_the_lens_mesh_in_software_howto/) Hidden radial mask: don't render edge pixels not visible in HMD  
  &emsp; reportedly [minimal impact in DCS](https://forum.dcs.world/topic/348555-vr-enable-hmd-mask-is-this-still-useful/)  
[HTCC](https://htcc.fredemmott.com/) - hand tracking OpenXR API layer for MSFS, DCS World, HelloXR  
[iNFINITE](https://www.infinite.cz/projects/HMD-tester-virtual-reality-headset-database-utility) VR Headset FoV database and test utility  
[iVRy](https://steamcommunity.com/app/992490) a commercial app for [streaming SteamVR](https://github.com/PhoneVR-Developers/PhoneVR) to wireless devices  
[IW3](https://github.com/nagadomi/nunif/) MIT license 2D image/video to 3D conversion  
[judder](https://www.howtogeek.com/753131/what-is-judder-and-why-do-tvs-have-this-problem/) aliasing between render and display frame rates  
[Leap Motion Controller 2](https://leap2.ultraleap.com/products/leap-motion-controller-2/) by Ultraleap  
[Leapify](https://github.com/Nyabsi/leapify) switches between controllers and Hand Tracking  
[LSFG](https://steamcommunity.com/app/993090/discussions/0/4418677017727367960/) Lossless Scaling FrameGen
	["no substitute for DLSS"](https://www.xda-developers.com/lossless-scaling-hands-on/)  
	 &emsp; [LSFG 3](https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/993090/view/527583567913419235) 24% less latency, but generally not for VR  
[mbucchia](https://github.com/mbucchia)  XR software engineer Matthieu Bucchianeri  
[MeganeX superlight 8k](https://shop.shiftall.net/en-us/products/meganex8k-us) 2x 4k microOLED panel pancake lens VR headset,  
 &emsp; highly regarded by MRTV  
[MFG](https://www.nvidia.com/en-eu/geforce/news/dlss4-multi-frame-generation-ai-innovations/) - Multi Frame Generation (NVIDIA) up to 3 fake between rendered  
[motion reprojection](https://forums.flightsimulator.com/t/motion-reprojection-explained/548659) AKA SpaceWarp (SW)  
  &emsp; differences between objects moving in a scene vs e.g. camera rotation,  
  &emsp; by interpolation (adding latency) or extrapolation (guessing wrong)  
[MRTV](https://www.youtube.com/@mixedrealityTV/videos) MIXED REALITY TV - YouTuber and VR journalist Sebastial Ang's channel  
[MSAA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multisample_anti-aliasing) multi-sample antialiasing - operates along geometric edges.  
 &emsp;  Tom's Hardware suggests
 [4x MSAA suffices](https://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/anti-aliasing-nvidia-geforce-amd-radeon,2868-2.html)  
[mura](https://sensing.konicaminolta.asia/evaluating-display-mura/) fixed pattern display brightness nonuniformity, for which [SteamVR supports correction](https://steamcommunity.com/app/250820/discussions/0/1640912849406860288/)  
[NVIDIA App](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/software/nvidia-app/) replaces [GeForce Experience](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/geforce/geforce-experience/download/),
	eventually [NVIDIA Control Panel](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/drivers/control-panel/)  
[OpenComposite](https://gitlab.com/znixian/OpenOVR) replaces `openvr_api.dll`, often [speeding performance](https://aircada.com/blog/steamvr-vs-opencomposite)  
 &emsp;	by [forwarding calls](https://fredemmott.com/blog/2022/05/29/vr-software-components.html) to OpenXR runtime, bypassing OpenVR  
[OpenGL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenGL) - 2D and 3D graphics API, developed by Silicon Graphics  
[OpenKneeboard](https://openkneeboard.com/) Fred Emmott's 2D overlay for OpenXR and OpenVR,  
 &emsp;	works with [**SimHub**](https://github.com/SHWotever/SimHub/wiki) dashboards  
[OpenVR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenVR) SteamVR API since 2015  
[OpenXR](https://www.khronos.org/OpenXR/) alternative to OpenVR for [AR/MR/VR/XR API](mbucchia.html) since 2017  
[OpenXR API Layers on Windows](https://fredemmott.com/blog/2024/11/25/best-practices-for-openxr-api-layers.html) - Best Practices, by Fred Emmott  
[OpenXR API Layers GUI](https://github.com/fredemmott/OpenXR-API-Layers-GUI) Fred Emmott's tool tp inspect / tweak OpenXR API layers  
[OpenXR D3DX12](https://github.com/mbucchia/OpenXR-Vk-D3D12) - mbucchia' software enabling OpenXR Vulkan/OpenGL apps   
 &emsp; to work with OpenXR runtimes supporting only Direct3D 12  
[**OpenXR Explorer**](https://github.com/maluoi/openxr-explorer) switch runtimes, inspect properties, but hard-coded list;  
 &emsp; see xr-picker  
[OpenXR-Runtime-Switcher](https://github.com/WaGi-Coding/OpenXR-Runtime-Switcher) quickly switch System Default OpenXR Runtime  
[OVR Lighthouse Manager](https://github.com/kurotu/OVR-Lighthouse-Manager) manage SteamVR base station power  
 &emsp; without HTC Vive or Valve Index  
[Owl3D](https://www.owl3d.com/) for converting 2D video to 3D  
[OXRMC](https://github.com/BuzzteeBear/OpenXR-MotionCompensation) motion compensation keeps VR views in cockpit  
 &emsp; during large motion platform excursions  
[OXRTK](https://mbucchia.github.io/OpenXR-Toolkit/) mbucchia's OpenXR Toolkit  
[PCVR](https://www.roadtovr.com/how-to-tell-pc-virtual-reality-vr-oculus-rift-htc-vive-steam-vr-compatibility-tool/)
 Personal Computer Virtual Reality - VR rendering by personal computers  
	&emsp; (vs standalone / wireless headsets)  
[Pimax Crystal](https://pimax.com/pages/crystal) mini-LED aspheric lens headset  
[Process Lasso](https://bitsum.com/server/features/) GUI to customize software process affinity to CPU cores  
[pupil swim](pupil_swim.htm) perception of discrepancies betweeen corrections  
 &emsp; and real lens geometric distortions  
[Quadviews Companion](https://github.com/TallyMouse/QuadViewsCompanion)
	 utility to configure [mbucchia's QuadViews](https://github.com/mbucchia/Quad-Views-Foveated)  
[QVFR](https://github-wiki-see.page/m/mbucchia/Quad-Views-Foveated/wiki) QuadView Foveated
 Rendering - reducing resolution outside sweet spot  
[RCHeliguy](https://www.youtube.com/@markkovalcson7243/videos) Mark Kovalcson  
[Reflex 2](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/geforce/news/reflex-2-even-lower-latency-gameplay-with-frame-warp/) - NVIDIA:&nbsp; updating camera perspective as late as possible.  
[rendering](https://gfxcourses.stanford.edu/cs248/winter21content/media/vr/12_vr_sm.pdf) generating (binocular) image samples  
reprojection - alternative to [motion smoothing](https://www.uploadvr.com/reprojection-explained/) or frame generation,  
 &emsp; often associated with Windows Mixed Reality  
[ROV Test FOV & Resolution](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=1359389601) Snellen text legibility, glare, FoV, distortions
	 AKA [**testhmd**](https://knob2001.itch.io/testhmd)  
[RTSS](https://www.guru3d.com/page/rivatuner-rtss-homepage/) RivaTuner Statistics Server, includes FPS limiter, bad for OpenXR  
[RTX Dynamic Vibrance](https://www.tweaktown.com/news/96343/rtx-hdr-and-dynamic-vibrance-use-ai-to-dramatically-improve-the-look-of-thousands-games/index.html) -
 [**Nvidia app**](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/geforce/news/nvidia-app-download-and-features/) SDR to HDR converter  
[SimHub](https://www.simhubdash.com/) Windows sim telemetry utility for dashboards, haptics, motion,  
 &emsp; other hardware by plugins  
[SLAM](SLAM.htm) Simultaneous Localization And Mapping ([SteamVR Base Station](BaseStation/base_station.htm)) tracking)  
[Social VR](https://www.interaction-design.org/literature/topics/social-virtual-reality-vr)
 e.g. [VRChat](https://hello.vrchat.com/),  [Somnium Space](https://www.somniumspace.com/)  
[Somnium VR1](https://blekenbleu.github.io/VR1) mini-LED doublet aspheric lens XR headset  
[SpaceWarp](https://www.uploadvr.com/quest-2-application-spacewarp/) AKA ASW or Application SpaceWarp - Quest frame generation  
 &emsp; extrapolation tech using game engine depth buffer and motion vectors  
[SMAA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morphological_antialiasing) Subpixel Morphological Anti-Aliasing,
 similar to FXAA,  
 &emsp; but less cost-effecting than TAA  
SRS Sample Rate Shading:&nbsp; see VRS - or -
[Sim Racing Studio](https://simracingstudio.freshdesk.com/support/solutions/articles/35000209894-richard-burns-rally-next-gen-physics-troubleshooting) (motion)  
[SSAA](https://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/anti-aliasing-performance,3065-18.html) Supersampling antialiasing - visual
 quality and performance cost > MSAA  
[SSW](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zH7qCsey2to) Virtual Desktop Synchronous Spacewarp reprojection (frame rate jitter reduction)  
[stutter](https://www.howtogeek.com/874778/7-reasons-your-windows-pc-is-stuttering-and-how-to-fix-it/) inconsistent rendering time,
 missing some frames at regular display intervals  
[SteamVR](https://store.steampowered.com/steamvr) Valve's VR tools and services, e.g. OpenVR, Lighthouse Tracking  
[strain](https://www.testdevices.com/spin-testing/optical-strain-measurement/) visible artifacts, often with polarized light, from optic inhomogeneities,  
 &emsp; often induced by mechanical stresses, AKA [Schlieren](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schlieren)  
[sweet spot](https://vrlowdown.com/why-is-vr-blurry/) limited region near HMD lens centers with useful resolution, fewer artifacts  
[TAA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temporal_anti-aliasing) Temporal Anti-Aliasing blends pixels among frames  
[TAAA](https://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/anti-aliasing-nvidia-geforce-amd-radeon,2868-3.html)
 Nvidia transparency adaptive anti-aliasing for transparent textures  
 &emsp; in 2 flavors: TrSSAA, TrMSAA  
[Ultraleap](https://www.ultraleap.com/) hand tracking cameras and software  
[Valve Corporation](https://www.valvesoftware.com/) owner of Steam, dominant Windows PC game platform  
[Virtual Desktop](https://www.vrdesktop.net/) AKA VD, often Guy Godin’s PCVR app;  
 &emsp; a second version links to wireless (standalone) headsets  
[VDXR](https://github.com/mbucchia/VirtualDesktop-OpenXR) OpenXR runtime for Virtual Desktop  
[vorpX](https://www.vorpx.com/) VR support for 250+ DirectX 9-12 first person games  
[VR](http://www.lavalle.pl/vr/web.html) VIRTUAL REALITY (link to
	[Steven LaValle's](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLbMVogVj5nJSyt80VRXYC-YrAvQuUb6dh) free book)  
[VRC](https://hello.vrchat.com/) VRChat  
[VRFSG](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCtr084FH7rX9rUKTAlZFKXA) VR Flight Sim Guy - Somnium VR1 beta tester and YouTuber's channel  
[VRGOXR](https://portal.vrgineers.com/user-guide/software/openxr/) vrgineers' OpenXR runtime AKA VRG runtime  
[vrperfkit](https://github.com/fholger/vrperfkit) fholger's VR Performance Toolkit to upscale after rendering,  
 &emsp; fixed foveated rendering option  
[VRPerfKit_RSF](https://github.com/RavenSystem/VRPerfKit_RSF) RavenSystem's vrperfkit fork for dynamic FFR, HRM  
[vrperfkit fixed foveated rendering with VRS](https://github.com/cedriclmenard/vrperfkit/releases) - works for DCS, Assetto Corsa  
[VRS](https://developer.nvidia.com/vrworks/graphics/variablerateshading) (Nvidia)
	[Variable Rate Shading](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/directx/variable-rate-shading-a-scalpel-in-a-world-of-sledgehammers/)  
[VRSS](https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/nvidia-vrss-a-zero-effort-way-to-improve-your-vr-image-quality/)
 Nvidia Variable Rate Supersampling  
[Vulkan / OpenGL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vulkan) intended OpenGL replacement  
 &emsp; Vulcan is tuned for multiple CPU cores and modern GPUs  
[WIMFOV](first.htm#WIMFOV) - **What is my Field of View?**  
[xr-picker](https://github.com/rpavlik/xr-picker) cross-platform tool for OpenXR runtime selection;
	&nbsp; Fred Emmott recommends
